[AV-86224] Generated docs for Terraform V1.3.0 (#220)
couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella: docs/guides/1.3.0-upgrade-guide.md

---
layout: "couchbase-capella"
page_title: "Couchbase Capella Provider 1.3.0: Upgrade and Information Guide"
sidebar_current: "docs-couchbase-capella-guides-130-upgrade-guide"
description: |-
Couchbase Capella Provider 1.3.0: Upgrade and Information Guide
---

# Couchbase Capella Provider 1.3.0: Upgrade and Information Guide

Here is a list of what's new in 1.3.0

> ## New Features

Reviewer: @a-atri  @aniket-Kumar-c  What about system events and activity logs?

Author: @rajagp Added the system events and activity logs in the list

* Enable Network Peer [`couchbase-capella_network_peer`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/couchbasecloud/couchbase-capella/latest/docs/resources/network_peer)
* Enable Private Endpoint Service [`couchbase-capella_private_endpoint_service`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/couchbasecloud/couchbase-capella/latest/docs/resources/private_endpoint_service)
* Accept or Reject Private Endpoints [`couchbase-capella_private_endpoints`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/couchbasecloud/couchbase-capella/latest/docs/resources/private_endpoints)

## Changes

> There are no deprecations as part of this release.

Reviewer 2: @rajagp There are no other deprecations. Also, just FYI `configurationType` is deprecated in the api, and we removed the field from Terraform, it doesn't exist in the provider anymore.

> There are no deprecations as part of this release.

Reviewer: @PaulomeeCb  OK- Looks like we did't capture that in release notes anywhere :-) ...luckily sounds like no one was impacted. lets add example for single node (I think some user asked for that on how to do single node deployments)

> There are no deprecations as part of this release.

Reviewer 2: Yes that's true :) Let me add this example to this PR

> There are no deprecations as part of this release.

Reviewer 2: Added example, commit - https://github.com/couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella/pull/220/commits/f2f5bd9052090316f8eb208209e5fb89f4607dda

> There are no deprecations as part of this release.

Author: @rajagp Added the depreciation message for the 'configurationType' field

For more information, see the [network peer examples](https://github.com/couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella/tree/main/examples/network_peer)

## System Events

Use the `event` data source to fetch a specific event.
```
data "couchbase-capella_event" "existing_event" {
  organization_id = var.organization_id
  id              = var.event_id
}
```
```
output "existing_event" {
  value = data.couchbase-capella_event.existing_event
}
```
Use the `events` data source to fetch existing list of events.
```
data "couchbase-capella_events" "existing_events" {
  organization_id = var.organization_id
}
```
```
output "existing_events" {
  value = data.couchbase-capella_events.existing_events
}
```

## Private Endpoints

Use the `aws_private_endpoint_command` data source to get AWS command for configuring VPC endpoint.
```
data "couchbase-capella_aws_private_endpoint_command" "aws_command" {
  organization_id = var.organization_id
  project_id      = var.project_id
  cluster_id      = var.cluster_id
  vpc_id          = var.vpc_id
  subnet_ids      = var.subnet_ids
}
```
```
output "aws_command" {
  value = data.couchbase-capella_aws_private_endpoint_command.aws_command
}
```

> Use the `azure_private_endpoint_command` data source to get AWS command for configuring VPC endpoint.

Reviewer: @PaulomeeCb  Curious: I wonder how one will use this functionality in an automated environment with Terraform. The command needs to be run out of band before the rest of scripts can be executed. Should we provide some guidance here?

Reviewer 2: @rajagp I didn't work on the private endpoints actually, @l0n3star would be able to address this better.

Reviewer 3: @rajagp Good question.  Short answer, this command is not particularly useful in an automated environment.  

Long answer.  Assume customers will configure VPC endpoints with terraform as well.  They would have to use the CSP's terraform provider.  For example with AWS it might look like this:

```
resource "aws_vpc_endpoint" "example" {
  vpc_id            = var.vpc_id
  service_name      = "com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-1234"
  vpc_endpoint_type = "Interface"
  subnet_ids        = var.subnet_ids
}
```

Customers will have to supply `vpc_id` and `subnet_ids`.   `vpc_endpoint_type` must be `Interface`.  What customers need from us is `service_name`.  It would be better if we just returned the service name so it can be referenced in AWS's resource block.

Reviewer: @l0n3star I think we should add an enhancement for 1.3.1 to return the `service_name`- we can do that in provider right?

Reviewer 3: We can do it in the provider.  Just need to extract `service_name` from what's returned by the API.  

And of course need to do something similar for Azure.

Reviewer 3: @rajagp 

On second thought I think regex is a bad idea.  What if the script changes and this breaks regex ?  A robust solution is to just return service name from the endpoint.  Luckily this is available to us from `network` component, so pretty easy to change V4 API.

---
layout: "couchbase-capella"
page_title: "Couchbase Capella Provider 1.3.0: Upgrade and Information Guide"
sidebar_current: "docs-couchbase-capella-guides-130-upgrade-guide"
description: |-
Couchbase Capella Provider 1.3.0: Upgrade and Information Guide
---

# Couchbase Capella Provider 1.3.0: Upgrade and Information Guide

New features in 1.3.0

## New Features

* Enable Network Peer [`couchbase-capella_network_peer`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/couchbasecloud/couchbase-capella/latest/docs/resources/network_peer)
* Enable Private Endpoint Service [`couchbase-capella_private_endpoint_service`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/couchbasecloud/couchbase-capella/latest/docs/resources/private_endpoint_service)
* Accept or Reject Private Endpoints [`couchbase-capella_private_endpoints`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/couchbasecloud/couchbase-capella/latest/docs/resources/private_endpoints)
* System Events and Activity Logs [`couchbase-capella_private_endpoints`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/couchbasecloud/couchbase-capella/latest/docs/data-sources/event)

## Changes

> * Deprecate the `configurationType` attribute in the cluster resource

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The `configurationType` attribute in the cluster resource is now deprecated.
```
